1. User Flow (Registration → Profile Setup → Dashboard)
a. Registration:
Landing Page:

Hero Section: Showcase the platform’s primary value proposition: "Unlock Scholarships in Tamil Nadu for Your Future".

Call to Action (CTA): Prominent CTA buttons like "Sign Up" and "Learn More".

Multi-language Support: Display buttons for switching between Tamil and English for accessibility.

Sign-Up Process:

Sign-Up Options: Allow registration via Email, Phone Number, or Social Media (Google/Facebook).

OTP Verification: Once registered, send an OTP via SMS or email to verify the account.

Consent Form: Ask for consent to collect sensitive data (caste, income, etc.) for matching scholarships. Include a link to the privacy policy.

b. Profile Setup:
Personal Information:

Fields: Name, Age, Gender, Contact Details (Mobile, Email).

Profile Image Upload: Option for students to upload a profile picture.

Academic Information:

Institution: College or school name.

Stream/Discipline: Arts/Commerce/Science, etc.

Academic Performance: Enter grades, CGPA, or percentage.

Socioeconomic Information:

Caste: Select SC/ST/OBC/General.

Religion: Choose from a dropdown (if required).

Family Income: Input annual family income range (e.g., ₹0-2 Lakhs).

Disability Status: Yes/No.

Document Upload:

Upload Required Documents: Income certificate, caste certificate, disability certificate, etc.

Secure Document Upload: Ensure documents are uploaded securely with encrypted storage.

Completion Progress: Show a progress bar indicating how much of the profile is complete.

c. Dashboard:
Personalized Scholarship Feed:

Top Picks for You: Based on profile matching, display the top 5 scholarships with relevant filters (e.g., deadlines, eligibility).

Scholarship Categories: Group scholarships by State-Specific, Caste-Based, Merit-Based, Income-Based.

Scholarship Information: Each scholarship listing should include the scholarship name, provider, eligibility criteria, amount, and application deadline.

Application Status Tracker:

Scholarships Applied For: Track scholarships the user has applied for, along with status (Pending, Approved, Expired).

Deadline Alerts: Push notifications or emails to remind students about upcoming deadlines (set to 1 week, 3 days, and 1 day before).

One-Click Application:

Pre-fill the application forms wherever possible using data from the user’s profile, reducing manual input.

2. AI Features (Web Scraping Logic → Matching Algorithm Pseudocode)
a. Web Scraping Logic:
Goal: Automatically scrape relevant scholarship information from government and private websites.

Tools:

BeautifulSoup: For static page scraping (to extract scholarship data from HTML content).

Selenium: For dynamic content that requires JavaScript rendering (e.g., websites like National Scholarship Portal).

Steps:

List Scholarship Sources: Start with government scholarship portals (e.g., National Scholarship Portal, State Government Sites) and private scholarship portals (e.g., Unacademy, Chegg India).

Scrape Data: Extract scholarship name, eligibility criteria, amount, application form link, and deadlines.

Regular Updates: Schedule the scraper to run every 24-48 hours to keep the database updated.

Data Storage: Store scraped data in the database (PostgreSQL or Firebase).

b. Matching Algorithm (Scholarships → Student Profiles)
Input: User profile data (caste, income, academic score).

Process:

Match on Caste: Check if the scholarship has caste-based eligibility and if the user matches.

Income Range Matching: Ensure the student’s family income falls within the scholarship’s specified range.

Academic Performance: Match scholarships requiring specific marks/grades with the student’s academic record.

Disability Matching: Match if the scholarship requires a disability status.

Pseudocode for the Matching Algorithm:

python
Copy
Edit
# Matching Algorithm Pseudo-code
def match_scholarships(user_profile, scholarships):
    matched_scholarships = []
    
    for scholarship in scholarships:
        match_score = 0
        
        # Caste Matching
        if scholarship['caste'] == user_profile['caste']:
            match_score += 2
        
        # Income Range Matching
        if scholarship['min_income'] <= user_profile['income'] <= scholarship['max_income']:
            match_score += 2
        
        # Academic Performance Matching
        if scholarship['min_grade'] <= user_profile['academic_score']:
            match_score += 3
        
        # Disability Matching
        if scholarship['disability_required'] == user_profile['disability_status']:
            match_score += 1
        
        matched_scholarships.append((scholarship, match_score))
    
    # Sort scholarships by score (highest first)
    matched_scholarships.sort(key=lambda x: x[1], reverse=True)
    
    return matched_scholarships[:10]  # Return top 10 scholarships
Confidence Score: Provide a confidence score for each scholarship, indicating how well the student matches the eligibility.

Filtered View: Show a filtered list of scholarships, sorted by relevance, to the user.

3. Admin Panel Wireframe
The Admin Panel should be intuitive and allow for easy management of users, scholarships, and analytics.

a. User Management:
Table Format: Display a table of users with the following columns:

User ID

Name

Email

Profile Completion Status

Total Applications Submitted

Document Verification Status

Application Status

Actions: View/Edit user profiles, flag discrepancies, approve/reject scholarship applications.

b. Scholarship Management:
Table Format: Display a list of scholarships with the following columns:

Scholarship ID

Scholarship Name

Source (Government/Private)

Eligibility Criteria

Deadline

Actions: Add/Edit scholarships manually (in case scraping fails), mark scholarships as outdated.

c. Analytics Dashboard:
User Engagement: Display charts showing the number of registered users, active users, and scholarships applied for.

Scholarship Performance: Track the most matched scholarships and their success rate (i.e., number of successful applications).

Trending Scholarships: Show which scholarships are most applied for, based on user data.

4. Frontend Design Inspiration
Color Scheme:

Use Bharat-centric colors like Saffron (Orange), Green, and Maroon for vibrancy.

Use Tamil motifs (like the Thamizh Thai icon) to create a connection with local culture.

Typography:

Use simple, clean fonts. Opt for Google Fonts like Roboto for English and Bamini/TAM for Tamil.

Layout:

Landing Page: Large hero section with prominent CTAs and a brief value proposition.

Dashboard: Card-based layout for scholarships, with large, clickable cards for top scholarship recommendations. Use Tailwind CSS for responsive design.

Multilingual Support: Ensure the platform offers Tamil and English language options for every page.

5. Ethical Considerations for Handling Sensitive Data
Data Encryption: Ensure that sensitive data (caste, religion, income) is encrypted at rest and in transit.

User Consent: During profile setup, ask for explicit consent to collect and process personal data.

Non-Discriminatory Matching: Make sure the AI models do not unintentionally favor or discriminate against students from specific communities or backgrounds.


Core Features:
Admin Scholarship URL Input and Automatic Scraping

The admin can add a new scholarship website URL (government/private) to the system.

The platform should automatically scrape the given URL for scholarships (name, eligibility, deadlines, etc.).

Use scraping scripts (BeautifulSoup, Selenium, etc.) to extract the scholarship information and store it in the database.

Notify the admin when scraping is complete and any errors are encountered (e.g., CAPTCHA, site structure issues).

AI-driven categorization: Automatically categorize the scraped scholarships into merit-based, income-based, caste-based, etc.

Real-Time Scholarship Updates:

Scraped scholarships are stored in the database and available for both admin and user dashboards.

Auto-Updates: The system should check and scrape the added scholarship URLs periodically (e.g., every 24-48 hours) for new scholarships or updated offers.

Deadline Alerts: Users should receive notifications for scholarships they are eligible for based on their profiles. The platform will show scholarships with upcoming deadlines and send reminders to users (via email/SMS).

AI-Powered Scholarship Matching:

User Profile Matching: Use AI to match users' profiles (caste, income, academic scores) with available scholarships.

Ranking System: Display scholarships with confidence scores based on how closely the user matches the eligibility criteria.

Admin Dashboard:

Manage Scholarships: Admin can see a list of all scraped scholarships, view details, and manage them (edit/update/remove).

Scholarship Categories: Display scholarships by category (e.g., SC/ST, Merit-based, Income-based).

Analytics Dashboard: Track the number of scholarships scraped, the number of active users, and user interactions with the platform.

User Dashboard:

Scholarship Feed: Display personalized scholarship recommendations based on the user’s profile (caste, income, academic performance).

Application Tracker: Allow users to track the application status for each scholarship (Pending, Approved, Expired).

Upcoming Deadlines: Show a list of scholarships with upcoming deadlines for each user, and notify them as deadlines approach.

Detailed Steps for Admin-Scholarship URL Input & Automatic Scraping
1. Admin Input:
Scholarship URL Input:

Admin can log into the admin dashboard and input a new URL (for government/private scholarship pages).

A form is provided in the admin panel with fields like:

Scholarship Website URL: Admin enters the URL.

Category Selection: Admin selects the scholarship category (Merit-based, Income-based, etc.).

Frequency of Scraping: Admin can set how often the platform should scrape the website (e.g., every 24 hours, weekly).

Save URL: Upon saving, the system will attempt to scrape the scholarship data automatically.

2. Automatic Scraping Process:
Web Scraping Logic:

The platform will begin scraping the provided URL. If the page is static, use BeautifulSoup. If dynamic, use Selenium or Puppeteer to render JavaScript content.

Data Extraction: The scraper should identify and extract:

Scholarship Name.

Eligibility Criteria (Caste, Income, Academic requirements).

Scholarship Amount.

Application Deadline.

Application Link.

Additional Notes (if any, like documents required).

AI Categorization:

Use AI (e.g., NLP models like spaCy) to analyze the scraped content and automatically categorize scholarships.

For example, scholarships with "SC/ST" in eligibility will be categorized under Caste-Based Scholarships.

Categorization Example:

Caste-based: “SC/ST/OBC”

Merit-based: “Top scorers in Science”

Income-based: “Family income less than ₹2 Lakhs”

Data Storage:

Once the data is extracted, it should be stored in the database (e.g., PostgreSQL or Firebase).

Keep track of metadata like scraping time and last updated time.

3. Notification to Admin:
After scraping is complete:

The admin will receive an email or dashboard notification saying that the scraping has been completed successfully or failed.

If scraping failed due to a CAPTCHA or other issue, the admin will be notified with error details.

The admin panel will display the status of scraped scholarships, with options to:

Edit Scholarship: Update any incorrect details manually.

Remove Scholarship: If the scholarship is outdated or incorrect.

Re-scrape: For reattempting scraping of a URL if any issues are fixed.

4. Automatic Update and Deadline Alerts:
The system will run automated scripts to check for updates or new scholarships at the frequency set by the admin (e.g., every 24-48 hours).

Deadlines: Scholarships with upcoming deadlines will be flagged and notified to users via email/SMS.

Notifications should be sent when:

1 week before the deadline.

3 days before the deadline.

1 day before the deadline.

5. User Interaction:
Users can see up-to-date scholarship offers based on their profile.

Personalized Feed: Scholarships are recommended in the user dashboard based on how well they match their profile (e.g., caste, income, marks).

Application Tracker: Users can track their scholarship applications and get notified of upcoming deadlines.

Admin Panel Wireframe:
a. Admin Dashboard:
Add Scholarship URL: Input new scholarship website URL.

Input form: Scholarship URL, Category, Frequency of Scraping.

Action buttons: Save, Cancel.

Scraped Scholarships List:

Columns: Scholarship Name, Eligibility, Deadline, Status (Active/Expired).

Actions: Edit, Remove, Re-scrape.

Analytics:

Total Scholarships Scraped: Show the total number of active scholarships.

User Engagement: Display user interaction with scholarships (clicks, applications).
